woman a woman tried to board a plane on
the innocuously named Spirit Airlines
sounds like an allegorical tale at the
18th century while boarding while
boarding her flight on spirit Airways a
woman tried to carry on board her
so-called emotional support
hamster I've seen the official response
to this from pedo People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals who never miss a
chance to miss a chance just oh my god
totally fail to address the real
underlying ethical questions here from a
vegan perspective our thing from any
thinking person's perspective and look
guys I want to keep this video off by
saying within the first two minutes I'm
still within the first two minutes this
is a situation where we really do have
positive alternatives to domestication
animals just today me and my best girl
Melissa here you see in the background
we saw a whole troop of feral rabbits
living very happily on the line of
pardon me on the lawns of Victoria
Island University where I just gave the
wrong name of the oh let's pretend let's
pretend that was intentional
Vancouver I want University um and these
rabbits you know at some point obviously
they're descended from from domesticated
rabbits they are feral not purely wild
rabbits and they're quite relaxed and
comfortable around human beings and they
get to hip hop around the campus they
get to chase one another and mate with
one another freely they do indeed breed
like rabbits I am sure once in a while a
Fox comes out of the woods and each one
of them and they off to run for their
lives I'm sure once in a while a falcon
swoops down from the sky
when human beings ourselves included
kind of take photographs themselves with
these rabbits there are signs up saying
please do not feed the rabbits but once
in a while someone throws a carrot at
them evidently and you know human beings
and animals can interact in grey areas
that neither can be described as the
wilderness nor as domestication these
rabbits that we just saw today have an
incomparably better life than a
domesticated dog or domesticated cat
that has to decorate the couch while its
owner watches television that has a
chain put around its neck and it's taken
out to a park to sniff the bums of other
dogs that live in other you know glass
cubicles in other condominiums
overlooking the park or once a day they
get to poo and pee and sniff the bombs
of other members of their species all of
whom have mysteriously been castrated
and in some place cases declawed for the
convenience of their owner okay so we
got to see a whole bunch of rabbits
running around living a life it's not
natural it's not nature red in tooth
insane it's not entirely wild but some
you know has in it real dignity
including obviously for those animals
the freedom to compete and reproduce and
the freedom to you know be both predator
and prey
put it that way they're living on the
edge of the forest they're not living in
the forest they're living on the lawn of
a university campus and one of the
professor's we talked to said it had
been debated whether or not the rabbits
should be gotten rid of or encouraged or
what attitude the campus that but hey um
and it's cute you know I'm not gonna lie
there's a speciesist element here having
bunnies around is different from having
rats around it is it's different you can
kill yourself I also think foxes
are cute it would be better you have
more foxes on campus to and the Foxes
can chase the rabbits for all I care I
think Falcons are cute we could have
Falcons you know I don't mind but don't
pretend don't pretend it's the same if
you've got a campus infested with rats
as opposed to rabbit it's not the same
Victoria University of Victoria is more
or less infested with
dear which is indeed another story in
any case this woman in this you know
headline-grabbing
story tried to take her emotional
support animal onto an airplane and it
seems to me hilarious that nobody is
responding to this by questioning what
the hell is an emotional support animal
in the United States of America in the
year 2018 and that is the question we
have to ask all the evils of
domesticating animals are here made even
worse and let me tell you something if
an animal being declared an emotional
support animal would give them any
rights
we as vegan activists would be rushing
out to get paperwork done for the
thousands of cows awaiting slaughter in
the slaughterhouses and the thousands of
sheep and the thousands of pigs we would
declare them all emotional support
animals try to save their lives or at
least try to make the meat industry take
a long hard look in the mirror right but
it doesn't mean a goddamn thing it
doesn't make the animal any less of a
commodity or any less of a tool for
human needs human use human convenience
right and in this case the moment this
animal became inconvenient for its owner
she took it and flushed it down the
toilet and various people suggested this
is a crime I'm not at all convinced that
it is if you own an animal as your
property in most jurisdictions you do
have the right to kill or put down or
discard that animal as you see fit and
families do that with the family dog all
the time they take the dog to the vet
and have it put down or if they live on
a farm they may just take a rifle or a
shotgun and shoot the family dog through
the head this is an everyday thing as a
part of our society and again hashtag
speciesism do you think a pig or a cow
is really any different in this respect
right um a quick Google search will show
you many many websites that are
cynically abusing this loophole and
basically where corporate
services and say Oh get around the
regulations quickly sign up and we'll
have a medical professional declare your
pet an emotional support animal and then
you won't have as much trouble taking
into the airplane or getting your
landlord to allow you to use the animal
inside an apartment building etc and use
is really the word here right there are
a lot of people issuing these pieces of
paper declaring animals to be ESA
emotional support animals giving them
this quasi legal status for totally
cynical insincere reasons um but what is
this status of an emotional support and
when this case an emotional support
hamster even when it's done sincerely
this young woman who ended up flushing
her hamster down the toilet and who by
the way purchased a new rodent soon
thereafter to replace it a replacement
was purchased so if you're in this line
of work
let me tell you something you can be
replaced quote to be afforded protection
under United States federal law a person
must meet the federal definition of
disability and must have a note from a
physician or other medical professional
stating that the person has that
disability and that the emotional
support animal provides an a benefit for
the individual with that disability so
obviously close quote obviously this
wording was meant to pertain to
something like a seeing-eye dog helping
a blind person that there is a benefit
for a person with a disability okay the
fact that you are upset that you had a
lump in your neck which is what was this
girl situation she didn't have a
disability she was upset and she bought
a hamster to make herself feel better
this is not actually a legitimate use of
this legal exception right whereas
obviously someone in a situation like a
blind person with a seeing-eye dog is
what this law is Atilla for now if you
ask me do I think it is ethical or moral
for blind people to use seeing-eye dogs
my answer is absolutely not I'm actually
as a vegan
opposed to that and I think we should
abolish that too in good time I mean it
may be that right now there are some
people in circumstances that owns a
better alternative bla bla bla
but in principle my answer is very
straightforward there how could it
possibly be ethical to take an animal
you know castrate it domesticated
separate it from its own species take it
away from any kind of a life resembling
what it would have in the wild and to
make it into in effect a living toy a
plaything for human beings the sickening
answer were offered in the year 2018 is
that it's perfectly moral and perfectly
justified as long as a disabled person
feels that it provides them with some
kind of emotional benefit I'm sorry
honey if you're stressed out because you
got a lump in your neck maybe you should
try cocaine it'll straighten that
the out for you it'll brighten you
the hell up okay holding a rodent in
your arms and stroking it and pretending
it's your baby when you really think
about it as lowdown and dirty and
pathetic as getting high on crack crack
cocaine to cheer yourself up maybe the
relationship between a hairless bipedal
ape and a castrated rodent one stroking
the other on the head cradling in its
arms pretending that this rodent is your
baby sparking some sense of maternal
instincts or whatever it is in you I
really have to ask you which one is more
depraved taking a plant indeed quite
possibly an organic natural it grows
like a weed if in South America taking a
plant dehydrating it and snorting it up
your nose to cause yourself brain damage
that's pretty low that's pretty depraved
but out of these two alternatives to use
an animal in this way
when you're done using it to discard it
in this way yeah I'd say that's a few
rungs lower on the ethical ladder then
your average everyday crackhead and out
of the two you tell me which one is more
diluted which one is further removed
from the reality the person who does
this to an animal and and tells
themselves that they love this animal
and that this animal loves them and
you're honest every day crackhead who
just knows that they don't want to feel
bad anymore and they love getting high